---
Title: DBM101 Flipped Class 2
categories: [DBS101, Flipped_Class]
tags: [DBS101]
---

### Topic : Null value and set of sql oeprator
 
 Today, I delved into the nuances of handling NULL values and mastering various SQL operators. Both aspects play pivotal roles in database management and querying, contributing significantly to data integrity and query efficiency.

NULL Values:
NULL values represent missing or undefined data within a database column. Understanding how to handle NULL values is crucial for accurate data manipulation and analysis. During today's study, I explored several approaches to effectively manage NULL values, including:

IS NULL and IS NOT NULL Operators: These operators enable precise filtering of NULL values within SQL queries. By utilizing them, I can identify records with NULL values and handle them accordingly.

COALESCE Function: The COALESCE function allows substituting NULL values with alternative values, providing flexibility in query results and calculations.

Handling NULLs in Joins: When performing joins across multiple tables, accounting for NULL values becomes essential to ensure accurate data retrieval. Left, right, inner, and outer joins require careful consideration of NULL values to avoid unintended consequences.

SQL Operators:
SQL operators empower me to perform various operations on data within SQL queries, enhancing the depth and complexity of my database manipulations. During today's exploration, I focused on mastering a diverse set of SQL operators, including:

Arithmetic Operators: Addition (+), Subtraction (-), Multiplication (*), Division (/), and Modulus (%), which facilitate numerical calculations within SQL queries.

Comparison Operators: Equal to (=), Not equal to (!= or <>), Greater than (>), Less than (<), Greater than or equal to (>=), Less than or equal to (<=), which enable logical comparisons between data values.

Logical Operators: AND, OR, and NOT, which allow me to combine conditions and perform complex logical evaluations within SQL queries.

String Concatenation Operator: The concatenation operator (||) enables the merging of string values, facilitating text manipulation and formatting.

In class we were divided into groups with 2 topics null values and set of sql operator and were learning different topics and after our time was done we discussed with exchanging knowledge with each other.

for the psql code i wish madam could give us learning the starting basic of code then directly going to a project as we can understand airline ticketing but it is different in banking and voting to derive a code as we didnt get much basic
